Update csv to docs (#159)
medic/medic-docs: configuration/csv-to-docs.md

> # Seeding data with medic-conf

Author: We use a lot of sentence case already in this readme, although due to so many having proper nouns they look like title case. That said, the reason I changed it was medic-conf didn't look right in title case. I'll update the rest to sentence case for consistency within doc, and we can review when/if we bring all these docs into another site.

> Users, contacts, and report data can be specified in comma-separated value (CSV) files, then converted to JSON and uploaded into your instance using [medic-conf](https://github.com/medic/medic-conf). This documentation will cover how to the CSV notation needed, fetching CSV files from Google Sheets, converting the CSV files into JSON docs, and then uploading the data from the JSON files to your instance.

Author: Ya, I leaned towards a less technical audience, at least for the intro.

```suggestion
Users, contacts, and report data can be specified in comma-separated value (CSV) files, then converted to JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) files and uploaded into your instance using [medic-conf](https://github.com/medic/medic-conf). This documentation will cover how to the CSV notation needed, fetching CSV files from Google Sheets, converting the CSV files into JSON docs, and then uploading the data from the JSON files to your instance.
```

## Creating CSV files for Contacts, Reports

A separate CSV file is needed for each type of place, person, or report in your project's local `csv` folder. The name of the file determines the type of doc created for rows contained in the file. The possible types are: `report`, `person`, and `place`. Each of these has a further specifier provided in the filename:

> - `place.{place_type}.csv`:  where `{place_type}` is the type of place specified in the file, one of: `clinic`, `health_center`, `district_hospital`

Author: Looks like there is [support of any place name](https://github.com/medic/medic-conf/blob/4afeef429b7987f514c594a4936092a6e956cd6b/src/fn/csv-to-docs.js#L101), so should work with configurable hierarchy, except for [referenced docs](https://github.com/medic/medic-conf/blob/4afeef429b7987f514c594a4936092a6e956cd6b/src/fn/csv-to-docs.js#L85-L87).

Created a new issue for the missing functionality: https://github.com/medic/medic-conf/issues/273

> - `person.{parent_place_type}.csv`:  where `{parent_place_type}` is the parent for the person, one of: `clinic`, `health_center`, `district_hospital`

Author: Corrected, as this should support configurable hierarchies.

- `report.{form_id}.csv`:  where `{form_id}` is the form ID for all the reports in the file. You will need one file per form ID

Here are some examples:

> File named `place.district_hospital.csv` adds the property `"type":"district_hospital"`<br/>

Author: Looks like it still works with flexible hierarchy. The HTML tags were from the previous version, and will replace them with bullets for each line.

File named `person.clinic.csv` add the property `"type":"person"`<br/>
File named `report.immunization_visit.csv` add the property `"type":"report", "form":"immunization_visit"`<br/>

In each of these files a header row is used to specify the JSON field names, and each subsequent row specifies the corresponding values for a doc. A `_id` field is automatically generated with a universally unique identifier.

Here is an example of a `csv/person.clinic.csv` file for people belonging to clinics:

> | name | sex | date_of_birth |

Author: From what I've seen most people working with this feature would be working on their CSV in a spreadsheet, and those working on large CSVs in a text editor will understand it.

My attempts at updating the text felt clunky (eg "Here is a table representation of an example...") but if you have suggestions for updated text feel free to sugges here.

> | name | sex | date_of_birth |

Author: Decided to include both. We can always edit in future revisions when we target specific audiences.

| --------------------- | --------------------- | --------------------- |
| Adriana Akiyama | female | 1985-12-31
| Becky Backlund | female | 1987-10-17
| Carson Crane | male | 2015-01-23

> Three JSON doc files would be generated for that one CSV file. Here is one of the corresponding JSON files, `json_docs/dbfbc0f0-117a-59ec-9542-3313fb10ef25.doc.json`, which was created from the CSV data above:

Author: Updated to provide more context.

```json
{
  "type": "person",
  "name": "Adriana Akiyama",
  "sex": "female",
  "date_of_birth": "1985-12-31",

>   "_id": "dbfbc0f0-117a-59ec-9542-3313fb10ef25"

Author: This is the actual content of the file produced, and I didn't want to tamper with it.

}
```

### Property Types

> By default, values are parsed as strings. To parse a CSV column as a JSON type, suffix a data type to the column definition, e.g.

Author: I don't think it is incorrect as is, but it is unclear, so will update:

```suggestion
By default, values are parsed as strings. To parse a CSV column as a JSON type, append a data type to the column definition, e.g.
```

	column_one,column_two:bool,column_three:int,column_four:float,column_five:date,column_six:timestamp

This would create a structure such as:

	{
		"_id": "09efb53f-9cd8-524c-9dfd-f62c242f1817",
		"column_one": "some string",
		"column_two": true,
		"column_three": 1,
		"column_four": 2.3,
		"column_five": "2017-12-31T00:00:00.000Z",
		"column_six": 1513255007072
	}

#### Excluding Columns

A special JSON type, `excluded`, is used for excluding a column from the final JSON data:

	my_column_that_will_not_be_a_property:excluded

> This can be useful if using a column for doc references.

Author: It is needed in the examples of each of the next two sections, which I presume is why it was explained first.

> #### Including Another Doc

Author: Ya, I struggled with this when revisiting the documentation. Will take your suggestion of moving _Property Type_ to a lower title, and put it all in a _Special Notations_ sections.

Often times database documents need to include or refer to other documents in the database. This can be achieved with queries across CSV files, which is done by specifying a query in the column header. The query specifies the doc type (`person` or `place`) and matching condition.

For instance, to include the parent district's doc in a health center's doc, the `parent:place WHERE reference_id=COL_VAL` column header is used. The `COL_VAL` is a special notation for that column's value for the row, and it will be used to match against the `reference_id` field in all other places. Given these example CSVs, you can see the corresponding JSON structure:

> ##### `place.district.csv`

Author: Any suggestions of what should be used? I'll update with bolding and colon in the meantime.

> ##### `place.district.csv`

Reviewer: Yeah, I commented as such a little bit below that: https://github.com/medic/medic-docs/pull/159#discussion_r352604414

| reference_id:excluded | is_name_generated | name | reported_date:timestamp |
| --------------------- | ----------------- | ---- | ----------------------- |
| district_1            | false             | D1   | 1544031155715           |
| district_2            | false             | D2   | 1544031155715           |
| district_3            | false             | D3   | 1544031155715           |

##### `place.health_center.csv`

| reference_id:excluded | parent:place WHERE reference_id=COL_VAL | is_name_generated | name | reported_date:timestamp |
| --------------------- | --------------------------------------- | ----------------- | ---- | ----------------------- |
| health_center_1       | district_1                              | false             | HC1  |  1544031155715           |
| health_center_2       | district_2                              | false             | HC2  |  1544031155715           |
| health_center_3       | district_3                              | false             | HC3  |  1544031155715           |

##### `480d0cd0-c021-5d55-8c63-d86576d592fc.doc.json`

```
{
  "type": "health_center",

>   //Parent Property with district_1 doc as the value

Author: I don't think the comment adds much here, so removed it.

  "parent": {
    "type": "district_hospital",
    "parent": "",
    "is_name_generated": "false",
    "name": "D2",
    "external_id": "",
    "notes": "",
    "geolocation": "",
    "reported_date": 1544031155715,
    "_id": "f223f240-5d6a-5a7a-91d4-46d3c59de73e"
  },
  "is_name_generated": "false",
  "name": "HC7",
  "external_id": "",
  "notes": "",
  "geolocation": "",
  "reported_date": 1544031155715,
  "_id": "480d0cd0-c021-5d55-8c63-d86576d592fc"
}
```

> #### Get Value From Another Doc

Author: Updated to match style of other headers in the section.

| reference_id:excluded | parent:GET _id OF place WHERE reference_id=COL_VAL | is_name_generated | name | reported_date:timestamp |
| --------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- | ---- | ----------------------- |
| health_center_1       | district_1                                         | false             | HC1  | 1544031155715           |
| health_center_2       | district_2                                         | false             | HC2  | 1544031155715           |
| health_center_3       | district_3                                         | false             | HC3  | 1544031155715           |

The resulting doc structure would be:

```
{
  "type": "health_center",
  //Parent property with the _id from district_1 as the value.
  "parent": "0c31056a-3a80-54dd-b136-46145d451a66",
  "is_name_generated": "false",
  "name": "HC3",
  "external_id": "",
  "notes": "",
  "geolocation": "",
  "reported_date": 1544031155715,
  "_id": "45293356-353c-5eb1-9a41-baa3427b4f69"
}
```

> ## Creating CSV files for Users

Author: Ya, that's a good idea!

> ### Creating a new user with a new place

Reviewer: In this heading we're talking about a new place, and in the next heading we talk about linking users to contacts. As these are supposed to be two different variants of achieving the same thing we should keep the naming consistent, for example:
 - Creating a new user with a new place
 - Creating a new user with an existing place

Author: Good call! Just to clarify here, the content isn't about an existing place, but rather a person or place defined in a CSV.

```suggestion
### Creating a new user linked to contacts in CSV files
```

> To create new users associated to new place and a new contact. Provide values for contact.name, place.name, and place.parent(can be existing place)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create new users associated to a new place and a new contact, provide values for contact.name, place.name, and place.parent (can be an existing place)
```

Author: Thanks for finding this mistake. I couldn't accept your suggestion directly anymore, but think it's covered by other corrections.

```
username,password,roles,name,phone,contact.name,place.c_prop,place.type,place.name,place.parent
alice,Secret_1,district-admin,Alice Example,+123456789,Alice,p_val_a,health_center,alice area, district_uuid
bob,Secret_1,district-admin,bob Example,+123456789,bob,p_val_a,health_center,bob area,disctrict_uuid
```

> ### Linking users to contacts created from csv-to-docs

Reviewer: As above, rename this maybe

Author: ```suggestion
### Creating new users linked to contacts in CSV files
```

To create user accounts for contacts that are created while running csv-to-docs action follow these steps.

1. Create a `users.csv` file in the `csv` folder with the rest of the csvs needed for `csv-to-docs` action.

> 1. Add columns for username, password, roles, phone, contact, place, and any other additional fields you want to populate.

Reviewer: Isn't this step and the one above it the same in either situation?

Author: Ya, looks like it! Will see how it can be combined.

> 1. Use the following query language as the header names: for contact `contact:person WHERE reference_id=COL_VAL and place place:GET _id OF place WHERE reference_id=COL_VAL`. This feature is also supported in the csv-to-docs csv files.

Reviewer: Isn't this the same technology as described above? Shouldn't we just say that you can use the feature above to link, and then give a brief example instead of describing it over again?

Author: Yes, tried to clear this up.

> 1. Run `medic-conf csv-to-docs upload-docs create-users`

Reviewer: again, isn't this step going to be the same?

I think in general this doc is confusing because this is the first time a medic-conf example has occurred. I think it would be deeply helpful to talk about that stuff upfront.

Author: Ya, agreed. This needs a bit of an overhaul.

Author: Addressed in more recent commit.

> 	1. This will generate the contacts, places, and users associated to those contacts. The users are placed into a users.csv file in your working directory. Then upload the json docs creating your data and creating users associated.

Reviewer: I don't think this should be in the list, as it's the result of you performing the other actions?

> Then upload the json docs creating your data and creating users associated.

This sounds weird, "associated" doesn't fit at the end AFAICT (maybe you mean "associated users"?)

Author: Agreed, and I think this was removed in my most recent edit.

Here is a example of how the three csvs need to be configured to setup a user linked to existing place and contact.

> **csv/place.health_center.csv**

Reviewer: This bolding isn't consistent with the rest of the doc. I think it's OK, but it's not consistent

Author: Updated in most recent commit for consistency.

```
reference_id:excluded,parent:place WHERE reference_id=COL_VAL,is_name_generated,name,reported_date:timestamp
health_center_1,district_1,FALSE,HC1,1544031155715
```
Generated json doc for the health center

> ```

Reviewer: in places where it's legit JSON, you should add the json tag so it highlights correctly

Author: Done via https://github.com/medic/medic-docs/commit/94b8af6d9927f0fb2d81f83c7cde8c284d700087

  "role": "manager",
  "reported_date": "1552494835669",
  "patient_id": "60951",
  "_id": "65c52076-84c5-53a2-baca-88e6ec6e0875"
}

```

**csv/users.csv**
```
username,password,roles,phone,contact:person WHERE reference_id=COL_VAL,place:GET _id OF place WHERE reference_id=COL_VAL
ac1,Secret_1,district_admin:red1,+123456789,p_hc1,health_center_1
ac2,Secret_1,district_admin:supervisor,+123456789,p_hc2,health_center_1
ac3,Secret_1,district_admin,+123456789,p_hc3,health_center_1
ac4,Secret_1,district_admin,+123456789,p_hc4,health_center_1

```
This will generate the `users.csv` file in the working directory which is used by the `create-users` action. The contact and place fields should be resolved to the actual UUIDs.

```
p_hc1"username","password","roles","contact","phone","place"
"ac1","Secret_1","district_admin:red1","65c52076-84c5-53a2-baca-88e6ec6e0875","+123456789","8606a91a-f454-56e3-a089-0b686af3c6b7"
"ac2","Secret_1","district_admin:supervisor","b7d0dbd5-beeb-52a8-8e4c-513d0baece8e","+123456789","8606a91a-f454-56e3-a089-0b686af3c6b7"
```

### Using CSV Files on Google Drive

In your project home directory create a new json file named `csvs-on-google-drive.json`. 

> The keys should be the name of the CSV file stored locally, and for the value use the google id for the document. The name of the file must match what the file is generating a doc for. See the documentation [here](https://github.com/medic/medic-conf#csv-file-name) for naming files. 

Reviewer: is this link still right?

Reviewer: > and for the value use the google id for the document.

What is this?

Reviewer: > The name of the file must match what the file is generating a doc for

Which file? Didn't we just say it needs to be called `csvs-on-google-drive.json`?

Author: This is all still correct, but not clear enough!

```suggestion
The keys must be the relative path and filename where the CSV will be stored locally — see the CSV [file documentation](https://github.com/medic/medic-conf#csv-file-name) for the notation. The value of each key must be the ID of the corresponding file in Google Drive — the ID can be obtained from the URL eg `https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/{FILE_ID}/edit`. 
```

```
{
    "person.clinic.csv":"google_drive_ID",
}
```

To fetch the files from Google Drive run the command `medic-conf fetch-csvs-from-google-drive`. This will download the CSV files in the json document created above and place them into a folder named `csv`.

> #### Google Drive Authentication

Reviewer: This should be before we use it above, as it's the first step.

Author: I think this is addressed partly in https://github.com/medic/medic-docs/commit/71ff030fe5f6eb8296ba5992a742a1896df3c1ef. I don't think the steps need to be chronological since the intention is for this document to be less of a tutorial and more of a reference documentation. As such the general concept is described, and then more detailed info is provided since it may not be relevant to all.

> Medic-conf leverages Google authentication to access Google Drive. You will need to create a client_secrets file named `.gdrive.secrets.json` and place it in the same directory where you want the CSVs to be fetched. [Token Creation](https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/OAuth2InstalledApp)

Reviewer: > it in the same directory where you want the CSVs to be fetched.

This should be a specific file in the project that we can tell them right?

Author: I think so, trying to clarify here:

```suggestion
Medic-conf leverages Google authentication to access Google Drive. You will need to create a client_secrets file named `.gdrive.secrets.json` and place it in your working directory, and [create a token](https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/OAuth2InstalledApp).
```

| reference_id:excluded | parent:GET _id OF place WHERE reference_id=COL_VAL | is_name_generated | name | reported_date:timestamp |
| --------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- | ---- | ----------------------- |
| health_center_1       | district_1                                         | false             | HC1  | 1544031155715           |
| health_center_2       | district_2                                         | false             | HC2  | 1544031155715           |
| health_center_3       | district_3                                         | false             | HC3  | 1544031155715           |

The resulting doc structure would be:

```
{
  "type": "health_center",
  //Parent property with the _id from district_1 as the value.
  "parent": "0c31056a-3a80-54dd-b136-46145d451a66",
  "is_name_generated": "false",
  "name": "HC3",
  "external_id": "",
  "notes": "",
  "geolocation": "",
  "reported_date": 1544031155715,
  "_id": "45293356-353c-5eb1-9a41-baa3427b4f69"
}
```

## Creating CSV files for Users

> ### Creating a new user linked to contacts in CSV files

Author: I changed this accidentally in a previous commit

```suggestion
### Creating new users with new contacts
```

> To create new users associated to new place and a new contact. Provide values for contact.name, place.name, and place.parent(can be existing place), as seen in this example CSV:

Author: ```suggestion
To create new users associated to a new place and a new contact, provide values for `contact.name`, `place.name`, and `place.parent` (can be existing place), as seen in this example CSV:
```

  "reported_date": "1552494835669",
  "patient_id": "60951",
  "_id": "65c52076-84c5-53a2-baca-88e6ec6e0875"
}

```

**`csv/users.csv`**:
```csv
username,password,roles,phone,contact:person WHERE reference_id=COL_VAL,place:GET _id OF place WHERE reference_id=COL_VAL
ac1,Secret_1,district_admin:red1,+123456789,p_hc1,health_center_1
ac2,Secret_1,district_admin:supervisor,+123456789,p_hc2,health_center_1
ac3,Secret_1,district_admin,+123456789,p_hc3,health_center_1
ac4,Secret_1,district_admin,+123456789,p_hc4,health_center_1

```

This will generate the `users.csv` file in the working directory which is used by the `create-users` action. The contact and place fields should be resolved to the actual UUIDs.

```csv
p_hc1"username","password","roles","contact","phone","place"
"ac1","Secret_1","district_admin:red1","65c52076-84c5-53a2-baca-88e6ec6e0875","+123456789","8606a91a-f454-56e3-a089-0b686af3c6b7"
"ac2","Secret_1","district_admin:supervisor","b7d0dbd5-beeb-52a8-8e4c-513d0baece8e","+123456789","8606a91a-f454-56e3-a089-0b686af3c6b7"
```

### Using CSV files on Google Drive

In your project home directory create a new json file named `csvs-on-google-drive.json`. 

> The keys must be the relative path and filename where the CSV will be stored locally — see the CSV [file documentation](https://github.com/medic/medic-conf#csv-file-name) for the notation. The value of each key must be the ID of the corresponding file in Google Drive — the ID can be obtained from the URL eg `https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/{FILE_ID}/edit`. 

Author: ```suggestion
The keys must be the filename where the CSV will be stored locally — see the CSV [file documentation](https://github.com/medic/medic-conf#csv-file-name) for the notation. The value of each key must be the ID of the corresponding file in Google Drive — the ID can be obtained from the URL eg `https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/{FILE_ID}/edit`. 
```

# Seeding data with medic-conf

Users, contacts, and report data can be specified in comma-separated value (CSV) files, then converted to JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) files and uploaded into your instance using [medic-conf](https://github.com/medic/medic-conf). This documentation will cover how to the CSV notation needed, fetching CSV files from Google Sheets, converting the CSV files into JSON docs, and then uploading the data from the JSON files to your instance.

## Converting CSVs

> Running medic-conf with the `csv-to-docs` action converts CSV files from the `csv` folder into JSON docs for the webapp. The JSON files are stored in the `json_docs` folder. Instructions for creating the CSV files are in sections below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running `medic-conf` with the `csv-to-docs` action converts CSV files from the `csv` folder into JSON docs to be uploaded to your instance. The JSON files are stored in the `json_docs` folder. Instructions for creating the CSV files are in sections below.
```

## Uploading CSVs

> Running medic-conf with the `upload-docs` action will upload to the webapp the JSON docs that were generated from the CSV files. For example, running `medic-conf --local upload-docs` will upload the converted docs into your local instance. The target location `--local` can be replaced with an instance or URL. See [medic-conf](https://github.com/medic/medic-conf) for detailed instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running `medic-conf` with the `upload-docs` action will upload the JSON docs that were generated from the CSV files to your instance. For example, running `medic-conf --local upload-docs` will upload the converted docs into your local instance. The target location `--local` can be replaced with an instance or URL. See [medic-conf](https://github.com/medic/medic-conf) for detailed instructions.
```

In each of these files a header row is used to specify the JSON field names, and each subsequent row specifies the corresponding values for a doc. A `_id` field is automatically generated with a universally unique identifier.

Here is an example of a `csv/person.clinic.csv` file for people belonging to clinics:

```csv
name,sex,date_of_birth
Adriana Akiyama,female,1985-12-31
Becky Backlund,female,1987-10-17
Carson Crane,male,2015-01-23
```

Here is the table representation of the CSV:

| name | sex | date_of_birth |
| --------------------- | --------------------- | --------------------- |
| Adriana Akiyama | female | 1985-12-31
| Becky Backlund | female | 1987-10-17
| Carson Crane | male | 2015-01-23

Converting that CSV file to JSON docs with the `csv-to-docs` action would generate three files, one for each person. Here is one of the corresponding JSON files, `json_docs/dbfbc0f0-117a-59ec-9542-3313fb10ef25.doc.json`, which was created from the CSV data above:

```json
{
  "type": "person",
  "name": "Adriana Akiyama",
  "sex": "female",
  "date_of_birth": "1985-12-31",
  "_id": "dbfbc0f0-117a-59ec-9542-3313fb10ef25"
}
```

### Special notations

#### Specifying property type

> By default, values are parsed as strings. To parse a CSV column as a JSON type, append a data type to the column definition, e.g.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, values are parsed as strings. To parse a CSV column as a different JSON type, append the JSON type name to the column definition, e.g.
```

> 	column_one,column_two:bool,column_three:int,column_four:float,column_five:date,column_six:timestamp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	column_one,column_two:bool,column_three:int,column_four:float,column_five:date,column_six:timestamp
	some string,true,1,2.3,2017-12-31,1513255007072
```
I presume this is the right format?

Author: Yes, looks right to me!

This would create a structure such as:

```json
{
	"_id": "09efb53f-9cd8-524c-9dfd-f62c242f1817",
	"column_one": "some string",
	"column_two": true,
	"column_three": 1,
	"column_four": 2.3,
	"column_five": "2017-12-31T00:00:00.000Z",
	"column_six": 1513255007072
}
```

#### Excluding column

> A special JSON type, `excluded`, is used for excluding a column from the final JSON data:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A special column type, `excluded`, is used for excluding a column from the final JSON data:
```

```

 See Google's docs [here](https://github.com/googleapis/google-api-nodejs-client#oauth2-client) on Oauth2

> ## Converting CSVs and Uploading Docs

Reviewer: I feel like this should be before everything else? Isn't this knowledge required before the entire rest of the doc?

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/medic/medic-docs/commit/563a2af370f9e3b41d04e6d8905daf1e74adf251
